---
title: "CodeBook"
author: "Srikanth"
date: "Saturday, February 21, 2015"
output: html_document
---

##CodeBook
###Describes the variables, the data and work that I performed to clean up the data

Variable and data descriptions
*path
Path location of the data files. Set to "D:/3. Getting and Cleaning data/UCI HAR Dataset/"
*features
The vector containing the names of the columns. Obtained from the file features.txt
*col_types
A vector to specify the class of the columns classes to be read in the Xtest.txt file
*X_test
A data table containing 561 columns of the various measurements. The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ
*subject_test
A table indicating the volunteer who generated those signals mentioned above
*y_test
A table which describes the activites of the volunteers in numerals ranging from 1 to 6
*X_train
Similar to X_test but generated by volunteers in the training set
*y_train
Similar to y_test but generated by volunteers in the training set
*XTestTrain
The combined dataset of the tables X_test and X_train
*tidyData
The combined dataset of the tables X_test and X_train obtained from XTestTrain but only contains the columns which have column names either standard deviations or means of the measurements; filtered by "[Mm]ean\\(\\)|std\\(\\)". Also, the activites are labeled in this table
*Averages
The table obtained from tidyData table which is grouped by each volunteer and each activity and summarized by the means of the rest of the columns in the table

How it works:
The column names are read from the ytest file using the read.table command. Then the test data is read into Xtest using the same read.table command. The path is obtained from concatenating the path variable and the file names' using the function paste0(). Respondent number is also read and stored in the subjectTest file using read.table. Then the columns are combined into one table using cbind(). In this the column 'set' is added to mention that the observations come from the test data.
The same process is repeated for the training data.
Then using an IF ELSE ladder, the activity numbers are renamed into the activity labels.
After this, the data is grouped by respondent and activity and averages of the rest of the variables are retained in the 'Averages' using the aggregate function. This table is written into a text file using the write.table into the local which is also attached in the answer.


